this video is brought to you by spore
'ln quality integrity and tradition
today we got a walk-in freezer they're
complaining that it's not working
properly all the food in here is thawed
so nice and soft so that's a problem
I got no display on the qrc board this
is a qrc equipped unit no signs of power
I went into the breaker room everything
seems to be on in there so the next step
this unit this evaporator coil is
powered from the roof so we're gonna
jump on the roof and I'm walking up to
the unit and the disconnect switch is
off
that's alarming
no other I mean nobody else should be on
this roof and we haven't been up here
but but look at this
we just had some rain
although no I don't know maybe that
stuff looks new yeah maybe maybe a
roofer was up here
hatching something I don't know that's
interesting we're not gonna just turn a
disconnect switch on we don't know why
that's very interesting ironically the
customer says this thing's been off for
what they think to be two days which
sounds kind of crazy because it's a
walk-in freezer and it's still
relatively cold and then it's probably
50 degrees all right well we're gonna
jump into it we don't just flip
disconnects on we're gonna figure out
why someone maybe shut it off we assume
that someone shut it off to assume the
worst checking for anything shorted to
ground
we're looking for a reason why someone
would have shut this off yeah we're not
gonna waste too much time very quickly
we're going to check for line voltage
coming to the unit
I'm gonna check from phase to phase line
1 to line 2 207 208 1 2 3 - Oh a 2 2 3
208 ok next thing we're going to do
disconnect switches off we're gonna
verify that the disconnect is working
making sure that it's actually
disengaging checking the ground
on the load side nothing so we're going
to do a continuity test see if we have
any tone or resistance to ground
okay find a good ground testing on the
load side
nothing nothing nothing we're going to
test the fuses now use three is good use
two is good use one is good
so no direct shorts to ground I don't
see any reason as of yet well I can't
turn this guy on we're gonna
double-check the condenser fan motors
real quick make sure that they spin and
that nobody shut them off because they
were hitting anything nothing I see no
reason why I can't turn this unit on at
this moment so we're gonna go and put
this disconnect cover back on okay and
turn it on and it turned right on very
interesting we're gonna watch the unit
operate we'll run downstairs see what
it's looking like my evaporator fan
motors are running and my smart
controller or the qrc board or you can
call it a beacon board - this isn't a
full beacon system but anyways it's just
the qrc it's the dumb down version but
um it basically doesn't have
communication with the room but uh it
says off so it's a it's kind of a time
delay and it says it's 35 degrees in the
box right now so it should say Co o for
cool here in just a minute
is this very peculiar I talked to the
manager and he said nobody was on the
roof there we go now we have a delay and
I just heard refrigeration kick in so
I'm intrigued that the fans are running
though I would think that the fans
wouldn't be running yet but this smart
board smarter than I so our unit is
running it's been running for about 15
minutes I don't know what the box temp
is as of yet we do have every once in a
while the sight glass will flash
everyone still have flashes and then it
clears up and I did notice that there's
a little bit of oil back here
a little bit of oil just on the ground
so we may have a small leak and a
Schrader cap again it could just you
know I don't think this has anything to
do with why the disconnect switch was on
I think that someone shut it off why I
don't know management doesn't know so as
always big picture I'm gonna investigate
clear up that site glass if I need to as
I always say you really got to use your
senses so I noticed that there looked
like some oil residue right in this area
of that liquid service valve right there
and look right here this is the inside
of the panel right in that area when I
took this off so just like a oil stain
something-or-other right there too so
always got to pay attention and use your
senses okay I've shown this before but
I'll show it again charging with smart
probes I have a service fitting on you
I'll use a hose with the low-loss
feeding on one side and ended up all Bob
on the other
converted so we get liquid purge till
you get paper like my it's perched and
then what I'm going to do when I'm
turning it on
I'm going to crack it
ever so slightly so that we know air
gets in there
and now we're off and we meet her in by
the ball though she's an ADD refrigerant
until our sight glass clears up so like
I had said before the sight glass is
going from clear to flashing so it might
not be that low and in fact it's
probably a smart idea to pump it down
first and then test to see the liquid
level to see how short it is I'm sure it
is because if it's flashing when the
head pressure control valve is not
bypassing now it's starting to flash
right now I will out a little bit
and I can see my suction pressure on my
tablet right here
so one of the difficult things about
this unit is is that since it's a
microchannel coil microchannel condenser
the winter charge or the extra
refrigerant needed for the head pressure
control valve to properly flood the
condenser is a little bit harder to
determine so there is manufacturers data
that'll tell you it's it's literally no
more than a pound - compared to a tube
and fin condenser where you can
sometimes add multiple pounds on a
condenser this size I bet you the
refrigerant charge needed to flood the
condensers like half a pound or
something there's some tech data you can
pull up from the manufacturer and it
shows you but um my you know in the
field the best way for like I approach
it right now the head pressure control
valves not bypassing every once and
while it's flashed and the easiest way
for me to do is since I marked the
liquid level just check the liquid level
and fill into that via very careful to
because you don't want to overcharge a
micro channel so at this point I'm gonna
go ahead and pump it down at the
receiver so when you front-seat this
keen valve on this receiver you shut off
the flow going to this dryer so we
wouldn't be able to see the system head
pressure to know if the system's head
pressure was going too high while we're
pumping it down so if I was connected
here this would go down as the suction
pressure would go down and eventually
this pressure at this port and the
suction pressure would be the same
because the king valve is shutting off
the flow so by connecting on the king
valve Schrader port I now see the system
pressure while it's pumping down so I
can know if there's a problem
the unit has a packing so we're going to
loosen the packing
a little bit just enough to save the
seal
it is common for the packing to lead
though I tightened it while it's pumping
down because it was kind of leaking a
little bit out but now it's stopped so
we're gonna wait for the system fully
pump down then we're gonna warm up the
receiver with the heat producing device
I've told you guys a million times
use a heat producing device that doesn't
exceed the soft plug temperature on the
receiver which is usually on this
particular one around 400 degrees
there's usually sometimes there's a
mechanical seal this one right here
how the
a dimple on the top of the receiver
right up here on the top of the receiver
there's a dimple that is the soft plug
and I doubt you guys can see it but
right in front of it it's stamped 430
degrees so we're going to use a key
producing device we're gonna pass it up
and down the receiver a couple times
once it's pumped down again not getting
it too hot being very careful and then
we're gonna check the liquid level you
can feel it with your fingers okay so we
can clearly see with the thermal-imaging
camera that the liquid level is below
the three quarter mark so it feels cool
cool cool it gets warm right here here's
our liquid level at this moment right
here and I can feel it it's cool and
then it starts to get warm right here
and then you could clearly see it with
the thermal-imaging camera too so we are
definitely low on charge so we're gonna
go ahead and top off that charge and
then I bet you anything we have a leak
right around this valve right here so
I'm just very carefully adding the
charge when the unit turned on I'm just
adding it real quick the unit's still
pumped down being dead careful not to
overload the compressor with liquid
refrigerant
so nice and slow
yeah we should probably let it pump down
and check the liquid level again we're
pumped that three-quarters of the
receiver now okay my liquid level is now
here right there which is right where my
original mark was that I put when I
installed this equipment so it's
important that we you know I'm not
always perfect but in this one I mark
the liquid level with a paint marker
that wouldn't fade off so that way you
know make my job easier now because
here's the thing if I didn't mark it
who's to say if I filled it up to the
3/4 mark from the beginning maybe I just
weighed in you know maybe I calculated
the charge and put in the factory
calculation the factory calculation
probably isn't going to be 3/4 of the
receiver maybe it is we don't know
sometimes on some systems especially
tube and fin condensers you know with
the winter charge the receivers can be
oversized and stuff so you might only
have you know half a receiver when it's
got the proper flooded charge in it so
let's say that I didn't want to put the
maximum amount maybe I calculated it
okay but still if I marked it then I
would know from that point forward every
time that that liquid level should be
there when it's pumped down you get
where I'm going with that it's all about
you know a proper commissioning I should
have shown you guys what I already did
but I leaked checked with the cap on and
I wasn't getting anything the unit had
an o-ring because the o-ring is still
stuck to the valve and earlier guys I
said liquid line that's a discharge line
valve and that's there to isolate the
compressor essentially so you can do a
compressor change technically what I
would without having to remove all the
refrigerant from the system so anyways
but check valve right there and let's
see every once in a while we get a spit
of a leak so it looks like maybe a bad
Schrader so guys
Schrader's they always leak right but a
cap doesn't solve it a cap isn't gonna
make it not leak all right you know
it'll take time and it'll be slower but
if there's a leaking Schrader it's gonna
leak through a cap
even if it hasn't oring so now we're
gonna leak check the top of this too
and open that up to see if the top is
leaking because those sometimes will do
that and pulled off the cap and it looks
like there might be oil in there so I
bet you it's leaking out the top too
no no not picking up a leak so sometimes
my eyes can fool me but no nothing there
but let's go back to the Schrader and it
picks it up at the Schrader so I can
throw in a new Schrader right now it's
not a big deal I can be a easy one and
then we'll be done with this because
nothing up here
good stuff all right we'll fix it real
quick all right
I even had my core removal tool a new
Schrader all in my bag so all right
first off this is really easy for people
to
a little tight
turn it until you feel like clicking
hope that comes out
like you came
why this thing's so tight maybe needs to
be greased or something grab the little
nylon put it right here it was just dry
just needed some lubrication now the
question is how do I get this silly
thing out sometimes they're a pain
especially since it's on the discharge
line I find it much more difficult to
get Schrader's out of discharge lines
especially once they get really close to
the compressor it usually melts the
gasket messes them up but yeah so this
is nice and good now we'll try one more
time
cross your fingers please
yes he came out
I don't look like it's damaged but
whatever got a new one
[Music]
both readers in toward it down with a
torque wrench
so good to go
no more leaks all right I am NOT gonna
watch this box come all the way down to
temperature again remember we just found
the disconnects which often the manager
and none of our management staff turned
it off so we don't know who was up on
the roof a roofer who knows we don't
know let's run and everything else is
looking good I went ahead and gave the
condenser a quick little brush and no
way did it I didn't wash it or anything
like that it was just dirty up in the
top just brushed it off real quick
everything else is looking good so I'm
gonna put this unit together way in the
cylinder we're gonna call this 14 pounds
so originally weight 18 so we use four
pounds so it's down to about 17 degrees
and working we are getting an error code
a 1 but that's just an alarm for high
room temp so yeah point something out
too I saw this disconnect switch off
nobody can really get up here their roof
hatch is really inaccessible it's right
here but to get up this roof hatch you
have to go through the customers it's
it's a nightmare it's like in a hallway
by the restrooms it's it's not something
that you know like a restaurant cook can
go and do if he was trying to sabotage
the restaurant or something so coming up
their roof hatch really isn't something
that's gonna happen unless it's a
manager you know someone's gonna know
that's happening so I'm just kind of
walking around just wondering you know I
don't see any fresh tagging on the roof
so I don't think anybody's been up
you're vandalizing anything there's no
other disconnect switches off I do see
this which is suspect this it's looks
like roof sealer but I don't see any new
roof sealer around here really I mean I
see some new white stuff but it's all
dirty but I do see that it looks like
someone picked up some belt trash but
that's old that's not new and some belts
someone's on doing a job but I'll take
those down with me but I'm just looking
around is there anything else that's
messed up you know I don't see any other
ACS that are off I checked them all so
again I never found why the disconnect
switch was off but I don't always just
assume someone shut it off to vandalize
her to be a punk
I'm looking at it thinking why would
someone shut it off
what purpose would someone have to come
on the roof trying to investigate and
figure it out now if I saw fresh tagging
on the roof I would attribute it with
that someone just being a punk right but
I don't see that you know it's possible
that someone could have gotten on this
roof from other ways you can get on top
of there walk in and then it's a six
foot jump up here I mean you know that
I'm never gonna find out but I did my
due diligence just to see like hey is
there anything obvious that someone's
been up here and I don't see anything
this was the perfect example this is
nothing super technical this is a simple
walk-in freezer and I could have been in
and out of there in 20 minutes
the Box probably would have worked okay
maybe the refrigerant charge wouldn't
have been a huge issue maybe it's not
cold enough for the head pressure
control valve to bypass at this time you
know they probably would have been okay
but looking at the big picture
I was thorough and I went through
everything and I found more problems
than just a simple failed disconnect
switch very important though was that I
was totally upfront with the customer I
didn't go up there and say oh it was low
on charge that was your problem
I went to them and I said look when I
walked up to it this unit's disconnects
which was off why I have no idea but
because I don't just turn disconnect
switches on I went through everything
else and I found that it was actually
low on charge - so the customer was
involved in my decision-making process
they were part of the loop the entire
time I was not trying to defraud them or
cheat them in any way I was upfront
honest and fair I looked at the big
picture I gave them a proper diagnosis
and then I said and I found these other
things wrong - so let me look into these
so let me solve this problem before it
becomes a problem later on down the line
okay and you guys saw the results okay
we got the unit up and operating as best
as it could everything was good okay big
picture diagnosis I can't stress that
one enough really appreciate you guys
taking the time to watch these videos I
do livestreams Monday nights at 5:00
p.m. Pacific time work permitting
meaning that if I can get off work in
time I go live and answer questions you
guys I don't do a
lot of email and Facebook and YouTube
comment replies during the week I try to
address them Mondays just to give myself
some sanity because these videos can be
taxing on you trying to keep up with the
comments I'm looking at the number so
I've been trying to find a life balance
and paying more attention to my family
and trying to dedicate certain amounts
of time to answering these video
questions and different things so that's
the whole point of the live streams guys
is to address the the more common
questions and then I'll answer emails
you know as i see'd fit alright but I
really appreciate your guys's support it
is really awesome do me a favor help me
out share these videos if you know
someone that you think they could help
share them please
that helps me grow as a channel helps me
grow as a creator gets the word out
about the message that I'm trying to
spread and I'm not gonna lie it helps me
financially too okay but I'd really
appreciate the support if you guys could
alright just share these videos that's
all I ask
okay really really appreciate it any
questions you guys have feel free to
send them to me at HVAC our videos at
gmail.com leave a comment on this leave
a comment on Facebook you know anywhere
I'll try to get to them come to the
livestream ask the questions in the
comment section okay I always share
affiliate links in the video show notes
about the tools that I use because
that's one of the more common questions
I get is is where did you get that tool
do you have a link for the tool so I
always share affiliate links those also
help me to support the channel
financially when you guys click on my
affiliate links it's awesome when you
guys do I really appreciate it okay we
will catch you guys on the next one